feat(date-picker): initial design guidance (#16)
vmware-clarity/clarity-guidance: 1010-datepicker-design-guidance.md

---
category: component design guidance
state: draft
created: 2024-10-15
updated: 2024-10-22
---

> # Datepicker Component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Date Picker Design Guidance
```

Please also rename this file to match.

> [Datepicker](https://clarity.design/documentation/datepicker) component allows users to choose and input a date by manually typing the date into the input field or by using a calendar popover.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [datepicker](https://clarity.design/documentation/datepicker) component allows users to choose and input a date by manually typing the date into the input field or by using a calendar popover.
```

## Guidance

- **Must not** use for entering date of birth. Use input component instead.

> - **Must not** use to choose a date that is over 10 years in the future or the past.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must not** use the datepicker to select a date that is more than 10 years in the future or past.
```

> - **Must not** use date picker when space is limited.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must not** use the datepicker when space is limited.
```

> - **Must** keep the size of the datepicker widget the same, regardless of text field width.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** keep the size of the datepicker widget consistent, regardless of the text field width.
```
